---
title: Overview
layout: default
nav_order: 2
---

# Overview of AMI Project Administration
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

# Project Structure
## Projects:
Within PAMI, a project describes reformatting activity on a batch of media, initiated by either on-going the AMI Initiative or Public Orders (patron or donor requests).

## Work Orders
Work Orders are a subdivision of a project, but a project may consist of one or many Work Order (many in-house Projects consist of only one Work Order, but most Contract / Vendor projects consist of multiple Work Orders due to the high-volume of media).

## Deliverables:
Deliverable requirements for in-house vs. contract reformatting work vary slightly.
  * Vendor deliverable requirements are defined on the [ami-specifications](https://github.com/NYPL/ami-specifications/) repo.
  * In-house deliverable requirements documentation is pending.

# Project Creation
* Digitization batch inventories are generated by Preservation and Collections Processing, exported from CMS, and emailed to the PAMI Manager / MPC.
* A project ID ("PAMI ID") is generated in the PAMI Database [(PAMI DB)](pami-database) and used to begin all documentation. The following preparatory documents are stored in AMI folders on Google Drive
  * Statement of Work
  * Vendor Project Worksheet & Metadata Inventory
  * Shipping Document

# Project Preparation and Logistics
* Vendor Project Worksheet
  * Contains:

# Project tracking
## [PAMI Database](pami-database)
* The PAMI Database is used to establish project IDs, track deliverables, and generate statistics and metadata for AMI digitization projects.

## Vendor Shipments
* Upon arrival, all deliverables (hard drive or network-based shipments) are logged in the [AMI Vendor Project Tracking sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZeF6vGE1TqLnKaNjZFSIvjyKhYBt38nBcZDHyD_saPo/edit#gid=1908905860) document.

## Trello
[Trello](https://trello.com/nyplamipreservationlabs) cards are used to manage digitization and quality control of in-house and vendor work orders.
* Boards:
  * [NYPL AMI Labs](https://trello.com/b/cbbd5QgE/nypl-ami-labs)
  * [NYPL AMI Quality Control and Ingest](https://trello.com/b/CBLrQvG1/nypl-ami-quality-control-and-ingest)
  * [NYPL AMI Vendor Labs](https://trello.com/b/F57dfPzd/nypl-ami-vendor-labs)

## Google Drive
* AMI Google Team Drive is used for storing and sharing internal documents related to AMI work (specific folders are shared as needed with staff).

# Project Close-Out
## Project Summaries
* Compiling Manifests & Reports
  * **Capture Issues:** Find & delete the following characters in the vendor's DNC reports & HDmanifests
    - vertical tab ```\v```
    - tab ```\t```
    - carriage return ```\r```
    - new line [similar to carriage return but they both appeared separately] ```\n```

* DNC object management
  * Separate the items by original project fund (pami work orders should at a minimum be separated by project fund). Example: Slifka, Mellon. No need to separate by unit or research center.
  * Manager will forward the DNC list separately, and you can review to identify what should be sent to PAMI. Manager will pull objects and box-up according to project fund. On return, media goes back into they're original boxes.
  * For PAMI metadata, pull  item records from the original metadata inventory from initial project and create internal db records (remembering to change the cms project code).
  CMS:
    * CMS project code: PAMI
    * CMS title / description: DNC - [fund name]
  ....EXAMPLE: dnc - mellon
  CMS batch #:... next available sequential ## (can we put a placeholder in PAMI work orders until this is ready?)
