---
title: Vendor Shipping
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: Preservation Services
---

# Vendor Project Shipping
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Pre-Shipping Administrative Duties
* PAMI Manager creates an estimate of the number of items the budget will cover.
* Preliminary batch is generated by PAMI Manager.
  * Preliminary batch data is provided to vendors to gauge cost estimate.
* Vendor provides preliminary quote.
* Preliminary quote is compared to budget and adjustments are made to the batch as needed to accommodate budget constraints.

## Batching & Creation of Digitization Project SOW
* Batch is created / finalized by PAMI Manager
* Metadata inventory sheet undergoes [data cleanup](project-workflow)
* MPC/MPA reviews box check-out list, obtains box count and pallet count information
* MPC/MPA drafts tentative schedule for box migration and shipping dates
* MPC/MPA reviews loading dock / shipping calendar to ensure no conflicts, creates tentative calendar appointments for potential shipping dates
  * Note: Thursdays are generally off-limits at LSC
* MPC/MPA inquires with shipping vendors and provides the following information:
  * Pickup and drop-off locations
  * Pallet count & instructions
  * Loading dock info / requirements
  * Recipient loading dock info / requirements
* Creation of Shipping SOW
  * Draft a final Shipment SOW (convert any quotes into PDF format)
* Contact Procurement (2020 contacts: Joel Schlissler & Carey Weiler)
MPC/MPA emails procurement staff, describing the proposed timeline, shipper info, and attaching shipment documentation:
  * PDF: shipping vendor inquiry email
  * PDF: shipping vendor quote
  * PDF: finalized agreement email (statement of work)
* Procurement form is completed by MPC
* Requisition is entered into workday by MPC
* MPC/MPA confirms shipper arrival times week-of for pickup and drop-off
* MPC/MPA confirms that invoices have been paid following completion of shipment

## Shipping
* Boxes are migrated following coordination with SFP:
  * See [Box Check-Out/In Google Sheet Color-Coding Guide](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/preservationServices/vendorDigitization/vendor-project-management.html#box-check-outin-google-sheet-color-coding-guide) for information regarding box check-out.
  * MPC/MPA, Shipper, and Vendor sign document upon pick-up / delivery.
* **IF SHIPPING TO MULTIPLE VENDORS:** Print paper signs with the destination city tape to top of each pallet to distinguish multiple shipments to different vendors.
* Shippers arrive, wrap, and take pallets.
* Send a list of all out-going container barcodes to LSC Collection Manager. 
  * Collection Manager will update location of barcodes in SPEC. 


## Return Shipment Procedures
* MPC/MPA contacts digitization vendor to confirm new shipping dates and pallet count.
* (follow above workflow for shipping procedures)
* Boxes are checked-in upon arrival or before migration back to SFP staff.
  * (See [Project Workflow instructions](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/preservationServices/vendorDigitization/vendor-project-management.html)) for information regarding box check-in.
* Send a list of all incoming container barcodes to LSC Collection Manager 
  * Collection Manager will update location of barcodes in SPEC 

## Considerations
* Balance LSC storage capacities with incoming and outgoing timelines for all projects

## Truck and Dock Requirements
* Truck must be climate controlled
* Pallets must not be stacked or dismantled; pallets must be wrapped by shipper
* Delivery must take place MON-WED or FRI, between 8am-5pm (deliveries not accepted SAT/SUN or any day after 5pm)
* "Straight truck" required, no more than 27" off ground (dock ceiling is short)
* Lift gate required, ideally ~94" x 70" "tractor trailer" or “gesticulating” lift gates are preferred to accommodate the incline of the dock floor.
* Dock is 29" high from the ground, and only 19.5 ft long; outside of loading dock is a steep incline - short truck required.

## Shipping Vendor Info
* Clancy Relocation & Logistics
