---
title: Vendor Project Management
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: Vendor Digitization
grand_parent: Preservation Services
---

# Vendor Project Management
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Project Creation
* Digitization batch inventories are generated in SPEC Projects 
* A project ID ("MDR ID") is generated by submitting a Media Digitization Request in Service Now and used to begin all documentation related to the project. The following preparatory documents are stored in AMI folders on Google Drive
  * Statement of Work
  * Vendor Project Worksheet & Metadata Inventory
  * Shipping Document

## Project Preparation and Logistics
* [Vendor Workflow](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/contractDigitization/vendor-workflow.html)
* [Shipping](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/shipping.html)

## Project tracking
  # [PAMI Database](pami-database)
  * The PAMI Database is used to establish project IDs, track deliverables, and generate statistics and metadata for AMI digitization projects.

  ## Trello
  * A Trello card is created for each project on the [MPS Outsourced Digitization](https://trello.com/b/F57dfPzd/nypl-ami-vendor-labs) board.


## Creation of Vendor Project Worksheet:
* MPC creates a copy of the Vendor Project Worksheet Template:
  * [20##_###_keyword_###_metadataInventory_DATE - TEMPLATE](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IaWGYeKfHa6YcWiHXGkfQ1wMFL8oqu6SmpeKbPMjZV4/edit?usp=sharing)
  * Import the contents of the SPEC batch export into the 'metadataInventory' tab of the project worksheet, ensuring that the data is entered into the correct columns.

## Metadata Cleanup
  * SPEC exports often contain characters and values which are incompatible with JSON metadata. After copying the SPEC export into the template, **these values and characters must be removed using ```clean_cms_excel.py```  before the spreadsheet (the "...metadataInventory.xlsx" sheet) is sent to vendors for database import.**

  * Cleanup metadata inventory using ```clean_cms_excel.py```:
    
  ```
  /path/to/ami-preservation/ami_scripts/clean_cms_excel.py -c ami-preservation/ami_scripts/config.json -v -s path/to/source -d path/to/destination 
  ```
* Double check to make sure the spreadsheet was updated correctly 
* Send the "clean" metadata inventory to the vendor and have them confirm all fields appear correct 
  * **(failure to confirm inventory is formatted correctly will result in invalid JSON)**.

## Media Inventory & Physical Preparation
  * Box Check-Out:
  * The template for the box check-out sheet is included in the Vendor Project Worksheet template. When you import the CMS batch export data, the 'box-barcode-list' tab in that sheet should be autopopulated using the values from the 'metadataInventory' tab. Do not alter the locked sheets.
  * the 'box-check-out' and 'box-check-in' tabs are pre-filled with formulas that should pull the box barcodes from the auto-populated list. The check-out/in sheets may need to have rows added to them in order to accommodate the actual number of boxes that exist in the project. To do this, 'add rows' and drag drag formulas in columns A & B down to the last row, so that all formulas are working properly for all rows. Test by entering in valid and invalid barcodes into the column.
  * Boxes are pulled by MPL staff by staging boxes on carts to prepare for movement.
  * Once a cart is full and ready to move, Media Preservation Coordinator scans box barcodes into the prepared Box Check-Out sheet - before they are moved to LSC room 306. The check-out sheet confirms that the scanned barcode matches the list of barcodes that is expected from the finalized Metadata Inventory in the Vendor Project Worksheet. If any discrepancies occur, box barcodes must be checked against the metadataInventory spreadsheet tab.
  * Boxes on carts are brought to hallway leading to the 3rd floor loading dock and palletized.
  * Media Preservation Coordinator monitors wrapping and loading of pallets into truck by shipper. 

## Box Check-Out/In Google Sheet Color-Coding Guide
* Column B ("Inventory Box Barcodes Confirmation") value defaults to the value "CHECK BARCODE". Therefor, if you scan a box and the barcode is not on the expected barcode list, Column B will remain colored red with the CHECK BARCODE value, instructing you to double-check the barcode.
* If Column B turns orange, it means that you have already scanned that box barcode, or there is a duplicated barcode, and you must double check this box.
* If Column B returns the same barcode number you just scanned, then all is well. Proceed with barcode-scanning.

## Shipping Coordination
See [Shipping](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/preservationServices/vendorDigitization/vendor-shipping.html).

## Vendor Shipments
* Upon arrival, all deliverables (hard drive or network-based shipments) are logged in the [AMI Vendor Project Tracking sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZeF6vGE1TqLnKaNjZFSIvjyKhYBt38nBcZDHyD_saPo/edit#gid=1908905860) document.

## Quality Control
See [Quality Control workflow documentation](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/preservationServices/qualityControl/qc-overview.html)

## Capture Issue Review
* Review vendor's list of capture issues and add the items and notes to the 'captureIssues' tab in the project sheet.
* Update the SPEC item record for each item on the capture issues list to include an issue and current migration status.
  * [Updating Migration Status and Adding Issues in SPEC](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/preservationServices/dnc_doc.html)

## Project Close-Out
### Project Summaries
Project summaries are created by compiling mediainfo manifests and capture issue reports.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
