---
title: Vendor Administration
layout: default
parent: Contract Digitization
nav_order: 1
---

# Vendor Project Administration
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}


# Project Creation
* Digitization batch inventories are generated by Preservation and Collections Processing, exported from CMS, and emailed to the PAMI Manager / MPC.
* A project ID ("PAMI ID") is generated in the PAMI Database [(PAMI DB)](pami-database) and used to begin all documentation. The following preparatory documents are stored in AMI folders on Google Drive
  * Statement of Work
  * Vendor Project Worksheet & Metadata Inventory
  * Shipping Document

# Project Preparation and Logistics
* [Vendor Workflow](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/contractDigitization/vendor-workflow.html)
* [Shipping](https://nypl.github.io/ami-preservation/pages/shipping.html)

# Project tracking
## [PAMI Database](pami-database)
* The PAMI Database is used to establish project IDs, track deliverables, and generate statistics and metadata for AMI digitization projects.

## Vendor Shipments
* Upon arrival, all deliverables (hard drive or network-based shipments) are logged in the [AMI Vendor Project Tracking sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZeF6vGE1TqLnKaNjZFSIvjyKhYBt38nBcZDHyD_saPo/edit#gid=1908905860) document.

## Trello
[NYPL AMI Vendor Labs](https://trello.com/b/F57dfPzd/nypl-ami-vendor-labs)

# Project Close-Out
## Project Summaries
Project summaries are created by compiling mediainfo manifests and capture issue reports.
* Capture Issues Report Data Cleanup: Find & delete the following characters in the vendor's DNC reports & HDmanifests
    - vertical tab ```\v```
    - tab ```\t```
    - carriage return ```\r```
    - new line [similar to carriage return but they both appeared separately] ```\n```

### Capture issue object management
* Separate the items by original project fund (pami work orders should at a minimum be separated by project fund). Example: Slifka, Mellon. No need to separate by unit or research center.

* Manager will forward the DNC list separately, and you can review to identify what should be sent to PAMI. Manager will pull objects and box-up according to project fund. On return, media goes back into they're original boxes.
* For PAMI metadata, pull  item records from the original metadata inventory from initial project and create internal db records (remembering to change the cms project code). CMS:
  * CMS project code: PAMI
  * CMS title / description: DNC - [fund name]
    * EXAMPLE: ```dnc - mellon
  CMS batch #:... next available sequential ## (can we put a placeholder in PAMI work orders until this is ready?)
